OLM-2608: revamped artifacts to give better UX to the flow (#1)
grokspawn/example-operator-index: README.md

# example-operator-index

> Welcome! This repository serves to give a good starting point for those interested in maintaining the catalog information for their operator, and illustrating how that information contributes to an overall catalog ecosystem. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome! This repository gives a good starting point for maintaining the catalog information in your operator and illustrates how that information contributes to an overall catalog ecosystem. 
```

Author: Rephrased.

## Quickstart
1. fork this repository
2. adjust destination fields in .github/workflows/ci.yaml as necessary, commit and push changes
3. adjust Makefile $OPERATOR_NAME for your operator's name
2. decide on an approach: basic veneer, semver veneer, custom veneers, raw FBC, etc. and adjust the 'catalog' target in Makefile to generate your desired FBC
4. run local tests (`make catalog`, `make sanity`, etc.) until happy with the generated FBC.
6. add, commit, and push the changes

> 7. verify that CI passes and opens a PR in the catalog repository

Reviewer: Since these are complete sentences, I would put a period at the end (optional, as long as it is consistent) and capitalize the first word.

## Detailed HOWTO
### Actors and Terms
- [`File-Based Catalog`](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/reference/file-based-catalogs/) (FBC) is the declarative expression of operators and their relationships with other operators, other versions of themselves.

> - [`Veneers`](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/reference/veneers/) are a general class of objects which can provide a simplified interaction with FBC.
> - `Operator Author` is the role related to expressing an individual operator versions, channels, properties, etc. in a destination catalog
> - `Catalog` is the destination FBC-based catalog composed of the FBC contributions of one or more operators
> - `Catalog Owner` is the role related to integrating Operator Authors' catalog contributions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`Veneers`](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/reference/veneers/) are a general class of objects which can provide a simplified interaction with FBC.
- `Operator Author` is the role related to expressing an individual operator versions, channels, properties, etc. in a destination catalog.
- `Catalog` is the destination FBC-based catalog composed of the FBC contributions of one or more operators.
- `Catalog Owner` is the role related to integrating Operator Authors' catalog contributions.
```

- `Catalog Contribution` is the FBC that an Operator Author needs to convey to the Catalog Owner.  The format needs to be negotiated with the Catalog Owner.
For this example, the Catalog Owner receives contributions of a single, unversioned directory named after the operator which contain all FBC files, e.g.:

```tree
catalog
└── testoperator
    ├── .indexignore
    ├── OWNERS
    └── catalog.yaml
```

### Lifecycle

> This repository models a single operator author contributing their FBC to a catalog.  This repository comes configured ready with github actions to deliver the FBC to an example [catalog github repository](https://github.com/grokspawn/cool-catalog/). Github actions are preconfigured to generate the FBC from this repository and open a pull request on the catalog repository to merge them.  (See that repository for more information about the lifecycle steps after creating the pull request.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository models a single operator author contributing their FBC to a catalog.  This repository is configured with GitHub actions to deliver the FBC to an example [catalog GitHub repository](https://github.com/grokspawn/cool-catalog/). GitHub actions are preconfigured to generate the FBC from this repository and open a pull request on the catalog repository to merge them.  (See that repository for more information about the lifecycle steps after creating the pull request.)
```

```mermaid
%%{init: {'securityLevel': 'strict', 'theme':'forest'}}%%

sequenceDiagram
autonumber
participant User
participant LocalRepo
participant RemoteRepo
participant GHAction
participant CatalogRepo
activate User
activate RemoteRepo
User-->RemoteRepo: fork and clone repository
activate LocalRepo
User->>LocalRepo: update CI destination
LocalRepo->>RemoteRepo: push CI changes to remote
activate RemoteRepo
User->>LocalRepo: update 'catalog' target
LocalRepo->>RemoteRepo: push changes to remote
deactivate LocalRepo
deactivate User
RemoteRepo--xGHAction: <<push trigger>
deactivate RemoteRepo
activate GHAction
GHAction->>GHAction: Generate FBC from 'catalog' target
GHAction->>GHAction: validate FBC
activate CatalogRepo
GHAction->>CatalogRepo: Open PR in catalog destination
deactivate GHAction
deactivate CatalogRepo

```

1. Fork and Clone Remote Repository  

> IMPORTANT!  Skip this step, and any changes will be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT!  If you skip this step, your changes will be ignored.
```

Author: I have callouses over scar tissue that is triggered by informal second-person writing.  :) 
I rephrased... please see if it flows better for you.

2. Update CI Destination  

> Customize ci.yaml in .github/workflows/ci.yaml to your needs, setting the destination_repo to the URI of your catalog repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customize ci.yaml in .github/workflows/ci.yaml to your needs, setting the destination_repo to the URI of your catalog repository. 
```
```suggestion
Customize the `.github/workflows/ci.yaml` file to your needs by setting the `destination_repo` to the URI of your catalog repository. 
```

Author: The reason for the "... needs, setting..." phrasing was because they may wish to make other customization, including the possibility of multiple, discrete versioned deliveries to different targets. 
It's only going to be as simple as changing that one variable if their needs precisely align with the example.

3. Push Changes to Remote

> Push the CI changes to the remote branch so they will be ready/able to trigger when you later push catalog contributions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Push the CI changes to the remote branch so they will trigger when you push catalog contributions.
```

4. Update 'catalog' target
Locally, update the catalog target in the Makefile to generate your FBC.  Example targets are provided in the Makefile (with supporting artifacts) to support to the following scenarios:  

>    1. basic veneer generates FBC
>    2. semver veneer generates FBC
>    3. compound veneer generates and post-processes FBC  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Basic veneer generates FBC.
   2. Semver veneer generates FBC.
   3. Compound veneer generates and post-processes FBC. 
```

5. Push Changes to Remote  

> Once happy with the state of the `catalog` make target and the resulting FBC, push the changes to the remote repository.  This will trigger the remote actions to generate a pull request against the destination catalog repository as specified in #2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your are happy with the state of the `catalog` make target and the resulting FBC, push the changes to the remote repository.  This will trigger the remote actions to generate a pull request against the destination catalog repository as specified in #2.
```
